>> Jason Lengstorf: The next thing
that Gatsby trying to do is that,
Gatsby is acting as an orchestration
layer for taming the Content Mesh.
I'm saying a lot of words, don't worry,
I'm going to explain them.
And the many sources of data
that are available on the web.
So the monolithic CMS,
as I said, is kinda dying.
We're still seeing things like WordPress
like Drupal, and they're still being used.
But we're starting to see them shift
toward this model of being headless,
they act as an API as
opposed to a UI layer.
Decoupled Drupal is very popular,
WordPress now has an API so
you can do headless WordPress.
There are entire CMS that are being built,
designed to be headless,
things like Sanity.io,
things like Contentful.
These are companies that were
designed without a UI layer,
they're just a way to manage data.
And we need to be able to deal with that,
right?
So you need another solution for
dealing with that data.
So we call this Gatsby, the Content Mesh,
my coworker, Sam Bhagwat,
came up with this term.
And it's the idea that, if you have
data from all these disparate places.
You're able to stitch them together
into one common layer, the mesh.
And that normalizes that data in
a way that allows us to access it.
Where it doesn't matter when
you're building your site,
if you're doing it with WordPress, or
Shopify, or a combination thereof.
You can also do it with local files,
you can do it with a Jason, or a CSV.
Whatever you've got, we can pull it in and
we normalize it into this graphical layer.
So it feels the same to work with your
data, no matter where that data came from.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So in an old
school site, if you were to take and
look at this.
You've got a search bar, you've got some
images, some text, some products, and
you would have to make a decision.
All right, is this an e-commerce site or
is this a blog?
Because, if it's a blog,
maybe we're gonna use WordPress.
And then we have to figure out a way to
shoehorn e-commerce into a WordPress site.
Or maybe we're gonna use Magento
because it's an e-commerce site.
But now we have to shoehorn
a blog into Magento.
And both of them can handle that, but
it's not what they were built to do.
WordPress is built to
be blogging software,
Magento was built to be
e-commerce software.
And most tools are purpose-built for
a thing, they do one thing really well.
And that's what this headless CMS
specialization is really showing us.
Is that you can get these wonderful
purpose-built tools that do one thing so,
so well, and
that's what you wanna use it for.
With the Content Mesh,
you're able to do that, so
you just use the service
that solves the problem.
If you want a great search experience,
hook in Algolia.
You want content management for your text,
pull in Contentful, it's great for that.
You want to make sure that your
assets are served in an optimized and
cacheable way,
Cloudinary is really good for that.
You wanna sell something,
Stripe is excellent for that.
So you don't have to make
these trade offs anymore,
you can just look at what you need.
Look at the best tool for each task,
not for overall like on average,
this is better than everything else.
But, specifically for this task, this tool
is the best, and then choose that tool and
stitch it together into
one solidified layer.
>> Jason Lengstorf: What this
looks like in Gatsby is we're able
to just put source plugins for anything.
Another GraphQL API,
I'm not gonna name all these logos,
but you're able to just pull
in content from everywhere.
And it comes into Gatsby
as this unified layer.
You then build using reacting GraphQL.
The GraphQL layer allows you to query for
the data from any of these data sources.
Or all of them together in
one kind of unified query,
which we'll look at a little
later in the workshop.
Once you're done,
you run the Gatsby build process,
which gives you a folder
full of static assets.
Those static assets can go up on any CDN,
you can host them on, you can throw
them up on an FTP, if you want.
Or you can put them on Amazon S3,
on Netlify, on Fastly,
on whatever you prefer,
whatever you have available to you.
And then once you're done, this is where
Gatsby really stands out from other static
site generators because we go beyond that.
Once you hit the browser, it rehydrate
into a fully functional reactor.
So you're not just serving static sites,
you're actually serving
Progressive Web Apps.
And to look at how that kinda works
in practice, this is our Swag Store.
Now, this is an old version in the UI,
the new version is a little different.
We built this store because everybody
who contributes to Gatsby is kind of
automatically invited to be
a maintainer of our repo.
And we also give you a coupon code for
proclaiming a free item swag.
And we do that to say thank you to the
people who are willing to volunteer their
time to maintain Opensource.
So the way this works
is we've got products,
you can add those products to a cart.
And you're able to log in
with your GitHub account,
which is the how we verify whether or
not you're a contributor to our repo.
So we pull in the products
from Shopify at Build Time.
We query those products from our database,
and we build static HTML with those.
At run time, we check whether or
not you're logged in, and
we use Shopify API's to
build a shopping cart.
So we're able to kind of attach
a shopping cart from Shopify to your user
account that's at Auth0.
And all of that is tied to static HTML
that we built ahead of time with Shopify.
Once you're logged in,
we do the same thing.
We use GitHub to pull in
your recent contribution, so
how many contributions you made.
And then the actual contribution that
was most recent, and then below that,
we just pull in some issues.
These are the latest issues, and
we want that to be dynamic because
those change by the minute, right?
So this leads us to the third
thing that Gatsby is, which is,
it's a Progressive Web App generator.
The idea is that we just wanna make
the right thing the easy thing.
We've talked about how hard it is
to get all of these things right.
Well, if you need to deliver
a dynamic app experience.
And you need to design
this really interactive,
really highly functional,
extremely scalable,
fast website, doing all of that from
scratch would be extremely hard.
But, if Gatsby lays the foundation,
so that you don't have to think about
the vast majority of what you're doing and
just focus on the experience.
Then you get most of it right by default,
we call this making the right
thing the easy thing.
And the idea behind making the right
thing the easy thing is that.
By setting good defaults,
you as an app developer,
don't need to think about
making good choices.
You make good choices
by not making choices.